# Payslip Generator

### **Video Demo:** [Payslip Generator](***https://youtu.be/18M1TexupwY***)

### **Description:** 
This is my Final Project to [CS50’s Introduction to Programming with Python](https://cs50.harvard.edu/python/2022/). It is a simple payslip generator based on Python that gets the data from an excel file that contains the data of the employees and prints the data for each employee into an individual payslip. And for easier way of printing the generated payslips, the program will also merge them into one PDF file.


* ```project.py``` This program requires a data file in excel format (.xlsx) that should include the following column headers:
    1. Employee ID
    2. Employee Name
    3. Basic Salary
    4. Allowance
    5. Number of Days Worked
    6. Overtime Hours
    7. Absent Days
    8. Insurance
    9. Other Deductions


    All the required calculations are done within the program and it will automatically display the results in the generated PDF file. The row referencing of this program is also dynamic wherein it will generate only the PDF files as long as there is a value in the employee ID. Otherwise, the program will stop checking for data and completes its task.

    Upon running the application, it will require the user to input the following details:

    1. Company Name
    2. Company Address
    3. Company Contact Number
    4. Company Email
    5. Month and Year of the current payroll period


    The generated PDF files will be named as per the employee ID. It will also show the amount in words for net salary of each employee as well as the print date and time when the PDF file was generated by the program.

    Two directories will be created once the program finishes its tasks: 1) output folder which contains the individually generated PDF files; and 2) merged_dir that contains the merged PDF file.

* ```test_project.py``` Contains the unit testing of the functionalities of each functions in the program to ensure that all expected outputs are generated and errors are handled accordingly. A fixture was used to make a mock object for the current time since this is a value that changes over time and the test should be done in a controlled environment.


* ```requirements.txt``` Contains list of additional pip-installable libraries and packages that are required for the program to run.


* ```README.md``` Contains the general information about the project, its usage, functionalities, features, etc.

### **Libraries: ** 
1. openpyxl - for loading and reading the data file (excel workbook)
2. PyFPDF2 - for formatting the PDF template and manipulating the generated PDF files
3. inflect - for converting the numerical net salary into words